# polymatroidal_cone
Exploring polymatroidal axioms and cone



Given N (the base set size) and a set of fixed axioms
(which are specified in `slicer.c` and fix the last axioms to be applied),
`make slicer_run_5` can loop through all eligible axioms to put
in front of the fixed ones. The is the `vary_axiom`.

Once the `vary_axiom` is fixed, `slicer()` in `slicer.c`
performs a single generation of the matroidal cone,
by (1) bootstrapping the calculations by selecting V linearly independent axioms (V is the number of variables);
(2) determining the resulting V rays; (3) repeatedly adding new axioms to the cone and adjust the list of rays.
In (3) the next axiom (unless fixed or is the `vary_axiom`) is chosen to minimize the number of ray pairs.

```
  [make slicer_run_5]
  Given the fixed axioms
  Loop through the remaining axioms (not fixed) -> vary_axiom:
    [slicer()]
    Choose V linearly independent initial axioms (not fixed, not vary_axiom)
      If none found, abort
    Calculate V rays generated by the initial axioms
    Loop for the next axiom:
      If at the end, use the vary_axiom or the fixed axioms
      Otherwise choose next axiom to minimize number of ray pairs (draft optimization)
      [apply_axiom()] Apply axiom; adjust list of rays
      Potentially stop early once non-fixed axioms are exhausted
```

One iteration of the internal loop, the application of an axiom, yields an "experience",
which carries data about ray pairs investigated, resulting number of rays, etc. given a prefix sequence 
of axioms already applied.

A "step" is a step in the internal loop; its number is the sequence number of the axiom applied (including the initial axioms).

The output of `make slicer_run_5` appears in `$MATROID_LOGS/` in `*_output` files.

These files are processed individually by `get_pair_data.py` which extracts data about each "experience"
as a single line. These can be filtered to list data for a given step only, so only data relevant for the position
of the `vary_axiom` could be seen. It also prints stats.
These outputs are collected in `choose_axioms/` in this repo.
